README.md, before:

# Wyoming Whisper.cpp for Intel GPUs in Docker

Run an Intel GPU-accelerated 
[Wyoming protocol](https://github.com/rhasspy/wyoming) speech-to-text service
for your [Home Asssistant](https://github.com/home-assistant/core) in Docker.

Utilizes [whisper.cpp](https://github.com/ggerganov/whisper.cpp) and 
[Wyoming Whisper API client](https://github.com/ser/wyoming-whisper-api-client).

Tested on an Intel Arc A380.

## Installation

- Open the `docker-compose.yaml` and change the necessary values like user and
  path, as well as ensure the `group_add` matches your `render` group id.
- Install by running `docker compose up`.

## Usage

Add to your Home Asssistant by adding the Wyoming Protocol integration by entering your host IP (`127.0.0.1` if you run the container on the same host and HA is in a container too) and port `7891`.

After each restart of the STT container, the first request will quite a bit of time, but subsequent ones will be significantly faster.

## Changing model

By default the container is set to use `large-v2`, but you are free to set `MODEL` environment variable to [any supported model](https://github.com/ggerganov/whisper.cpp/blob/d682e150908e10caa4c15883c633d7902d385237/models/download-ggml-model.sh#L28).

Commit message:

Add an option for initial prompt

README.md, after:

# Wyoming Whisper.cpp for Intel GPUs in Docker

Run an Intel GPU-accelerated 
[Wyoming protocol](https://github.com/rhasspy/wyoming) speech-to-text service
for your [Home Asssistant](https://github.com/home-assistant/core) in Docker.

Utilizes [whisper.cpp](https://github.com/ggerganov/whisper.cpp) and 
[Wyoming Whisper API client](https://github.com/ser/wyoming-whisper-api-client).

Tested on an Intel Arc A380.

## Installation

- Open the `docker-compose.yaml` and change the necessary values like user and
  path, as well as ensure the `group_add` matches your `render` group id.
- Install by running `docker compose up`.

## Usage

Add to your Home Asssistant by adding the Wyoming Protocol integration by entering your host IP (`127.0.0.1` if you run the container on the same host and HA is in a container too) and port `7891`.

After each restart of the STT container, the first request will quite a bit of time, but subsequent ones will be significantly faster.

## Improving accuracy

To improve accuracy, especially of difficult, uncommon words, you may use the initial prompt option.
In the `docker-compose.yaml` file, simply change the value of
```
- PROMPT=""
```
It can be words that are common in your commands, words that whisper.cpp is having difficulty understanding, or some brief instructions.
For example:
```
- PROMPT="turn off turn on close stop play run set timer cancel temperature degrees weather tv lights lamp curtains boiler thermostat AC intercom rooms bedroom kitchen entryway corridor living room gym control smart devices smart home"
```

## Changing model

By default the container is set to use `large-v2`, but you are free to set `MODEL` environment variable to [any supported model](https://github.com/ggerganov/whisper.cpp/blob/d682e150908e10caa4c15883c633d7902d385237/models/download-ggml-model.sh#L28).
